---
layout: post
subtitle: ACTION STEPS&#58; With our current reality analyzed, we’re now going to set some very specific actions to fulfill our purposes and goals.
---

In the previous post, I wrote out several specific goals as well as my "current reality" around the roles I have and the goals I want to achieve. Now, I'm going to create some action steps for each of those that I can start doing immediately or at least in the very near future to change my current reality to what I want my reality to be.

For my role as a fiancé/partner:
 1. Book a date night to somewhere relatively nice at least once a month. Make the decision myself on where to go.
 2. Make a conscious effort to realize that I am bad at making decisions, and stop leaving things up to her all of the time.

For my role as a developer, I don't have any specific action steps I can take right now. I'm doing everything I can to continue furthering myself that I can think if.

For my role as a freelancer/entrepreneur:
 1. Hold myself accountable for the hours I said I would put into the project I have now. I put it off far too much.
 2. Send at least one cold email a week.
 3. Track clients with email tracking or some other form of tracking.

For my role as a friend:
 1. Remember to check up on friends who have had a hardship recently.
 2. Plan an event for our friend group in the next month or so.

For my role as a student:
 1. Strive to learn something new every day.
 2. Read more. Finish the book I bought (_7 Habits of Highly Effective People_) by the end of next month.

For my role as a community manager:
 1. Finish the automated inactivity message I promised Koda.
 2. Take a more active role in planning events.
 3. Try to bring in more traffic and more people to play with.
 4. Reach out to commmunity members I may not know well.

By the end of 2018, lose at least 15 pounds lighter than the start of the year:
 1. Pack my lunch instead of eating out every day.
 2. Make healthy choices! It seems obvious, but I don't do it often enough.

Regardless of the attendance, host at least two meetups around Angular in Louisville by the end of March of 2019:
 1. Create a site to start gathering information about interested people including email and whether they are interested in speaking.
 2. Find at least one person who may be interested in speaking.
 3. Define an outline of what the meetup may look like.

Earn six figures by the end of 2022: there's not really any action steps I can take here. I could look for another job, but I'm happy where I am now so I doubt that will happen any time soon.

Take at least three private pilot lessons to pursue my private pilot’s license by the beginning of 2020:
 1. Start studying for beginners. Reddit is a great resource!

Define an outline for an Angular course by the end of 2018:
 1. Do a whiteboarding session with myself on ideas for what the course could look like.
 2. Come up with three ideas for what to build in the course.
 3. Educate myself on the things I'm not as strong in in Angular.

These action steps are really going to help me start taking initiative on the things that I want to accomplish in the near future. I'll come back and revise these from time to time as necessary, but I think this is a good starting point for where I am and where I want to be.
