---
layout: post
subtitle: The place where we live has a tremendous impact on our lives. Take a look at the eight factors that should be considered when choosing where to live. Are you living in the right place, or should you consider a move?
---

According to the article, the eight factors that should be considered when choosing where to live are:

- Professional Opportunities
- Aesthetics
- Recreational Opportunities
- Climate and Geography
- Available Mates
- Proximity to Family and Friends
- Environment for Child Rearing
- The Cost of Living

## Professional Opportunities

There are plenty of professional opportunities for Software Development and Web Development in Louisville, KY. According to [KYStats.ky.gov](https://kystats.ky.gov/Content/Reports/2014-2024%20Kentuckiana%20Works%20Occupational%20Outlook.pdf), available jobs for SOftware Developers and Web Developers are expected to increase by an average of about 25.6% by 2024. It's not the fastest growing industry in the city, but there are definitely opportunities available with more on the horizon. With that being said, the technology that a majority of employers work with isn't something that would be my first choice. I enjoy working with the tech I do now, but I'd much rather be working with something more cutting edge. Not only that, but the average salary for my industry is quite a bit lower than other places in the country.

## Aesthetics

Tons of places in Louisville are known for their beauty. Old Louisville has all kinds of places to explore and see history of the city. The Waterfront Park is an attraction that brings crowds from all over just to relax and have a great time. NuLu is an up and coming part of town that has all kinds of creative minds building a great piece of the culture of Louisville. I think Louisville fits the bill for aesthetics just fine.

## Recreational Opportunities

Any time that we plan something with friends, we have more trouble deciding on what to choose out of the massive amount of activities to choose from rather than having a lack of things to choose from. There's plenty of stuff to do in the town I'm in now.

## Climate and Geography

I'd like to think that the slogan for my state is "Welcome to Kentucky. If you don't like the weather, come back in a few hours." Our weather is quite unpredictable at times, but we do have the benefit of having four seasons. A lot of places stay really warm or really cold throughout the entire year, but we have four distinct seasons. It's a nice change every few months. However, I _HATE_ the seasonal allergies I suffer from in Louisville. It's no secret that Louisville is literally the number one worst city in the country for pollen-related allergies, and I believe it for sure.

## Available Mates

I've already got this one covered.

## Proximity to Family and Friends

Most of my friends live here in Louisville. My family is two hours away, and my fiance's family is two hours away in the opposite direction. It is really nice to be in the middle of the two -- it makes traveling to visit one or the other really easy.

## Environment for Child Rearing

The school system in Jefferson County gets a bad rap because it is the largest school system in the state. However, Oldham County Schools are just a 30 minute drive away and are considered one of the best school districts in Kentucky. It's quite common for people to live in Oldham County and commute to Louisville so their kids can attend school there.

## Cost of Living

Louisville's cost of living is quite a bit lower than most other major metropolitan areas in the country. According to [PayScale.com](https://www.payscale.com/cost-of-living-calculator/Kentucky-Louisville), the cost of living is about 8% lower. This is pretty awesome considering the huge amount of employment opportunities and quality of life you can have living in Louisville. I can have the same kind of standard of living in Louisville that I can in somewhere like New York or Miami for a lot less.

Overall, I don't see myself leaving Louisville anytime soon. I really love the city and there's plenty of work to be had no matter what I want to work with.