---
layout: post
subtitle: Jot down a list of all the things you’re grateful for – big or small, broad or specific.
---

I'm grateful for a lot of things and I spent a lot of time this morning trying to narrow it down into a list that could be written up here. Here's what I came up with:

I'm grateful for...

## A great job

I don't believe much in luck -- I believe that you make your own luck in the sense that ever situation you find yourself in is a consequence of your own actions up until that point. With that being said, I do believe that I'm very lucky to have an opportunity as great as what I have straight out of college. I worked hard to get here, sure, but I could've ended up in a place that isn't nearly as good as the place I'm in now. My job is great, and I am very grateful for it.

## My family

Several members of my family and I have our differences, but my family is great. I'm fortunate to have a family that loves me and that raised me with a childhood full of support and care. They are the foundation that I was able to launch myself off of to get myself to where I am now, and they continue to be a solid rock in my life that I know will be strong.

## A loving fiancé

Julie is my rock. She cares so much for me and she is everything I could ever want in a partner. I can't say enough about her, but I love her so much and she returns the favor.

## My dog (and my other pets)

Our dog is a rescue. She came from a situation where she was mistreated not only by her caretakers, but her siblings as well. I was afraid she was going to favor isolation and not want much contact with us, but she is the complete opposite. She is loving, full of energy, and super cuddly. I've never had a better dog

My other pets are great too. As annoying as they can be, each one of them have their own unique personality and they're fun to interact with.

## Ability to write and understand code

Coding is my career. I take my programming knowledge for granted a lot. Things that seem simple to me are out of this world for others, and some people will never be able to understand it even if they wanted to. I am grateful that I am not one of those people. I enjoy it so much that I can't imagine my life without it.

## Keyboards

Keyboards are one of my favorite hobbies. I collect mechanical keyboards and customize them to look like something that I enjoy. I currently own 8 (I think?) keyboards, and plan to continue expanding my collection.

## A decent house

Sure, there are plenty of things that I would change about my house (like adding another bedroom), but my house is pretty great. Home ownership has come with it's own struggles, but I think the reward definitely outweighs the effort we have to put in. I'm grateful that I have had the means up to this point in my life to afford the house I own.

## People to play games with

I'm an avid video game player, and I like playing competitive games. Competitive games are obviously more fun with someone to play with, and I'm grateful for my friends and online acquaintances that I can play those games with.

## Getting up in the morning

Every day I'm grateful that I've been given another day on this Earth to live my life in the fullest. All of these other things wouldn't matter if I wasn't here to be grateful for them. I'm continually making myself not take what I have for granted, because one day I could have none of it.

What are you grateful for?
